After our direction in the last lecture,
we're now gonna implement resolution
switching with HTML.
And so, you're gonna learn how to allow the browser
to decide which is the best image to download,
using the source set attribute with descriptors
and the size attribute of the image element.
But before we do all of that, I wanted to show you something
here in the dev tools which allows us to also
test out the resolution of our screen.
So we can come up here to this menu
and hit add device pixel ratio.
And so, now we can test if we have the two x
or the one x image here going on.
Now, the problem with this is that
it doesn't really work well.
So I've done some experiments with this
in the past four couple of hours.
And it usually didn't always work.
So that's the kind of the problem.
But let's try it out now.
So, the device pixel ratio here is now set to one.
And that means that we have a low resolution screen.
And so, therefore what we have here should be
the logo green one x, so this one here.
Now, in order to be absolutely sure,
we can actually come here to the inspector.
Then come here to this, which says properties,
then here to image, and down here we can see
the current source.
And so, here we can see that it's actually using
logo green one x.
So for a device pixel ratio of one.
Now, if we change this to two,
let's reload the page, and I think that now
it actually changed.
And so, if you come here now to current source,
then we see logo green two x.
And so now as we're simulating a high resolution screen,
then the browser actually uses our higher resolution image.
So that's working.
Now for the small screen, let's reload that again.
And take a look at what we have here.
And, yeah, so it's using the logo small at two x.
So still again, as we planned.
So this one here right now.
And now let's change it here to one as well.
Reload it, and now I think at this time,
it didn't really work.
Let's test that.
And, yeah, so it still says two x.
But that's a problem here in Google Chrome.
So, actually, if you would still use this
in the real world, then the right image would load.
Okay, so don't worry about the result here so much.
Let's try that again.
And it still says green small two x.
I'm gonna change this maybe to three or something.
Then back to one, reload, and you have to really
play around in order to get the right result here.
It doesn't make much sense, but again I believe
there is a small but going on.
So let's try that again.
Okay, and now we see green small one x.
Okay, so that's the image that we want.
And so, now Google Chrome is directly displaying that.
Okay, so, besides testing here for different screen width,
we can also simulate different device pixel ratios.
So, basically different pixel densities.
All right, but now it's time for resolution switching.
And as I mentioned before, the images that I'm gonna use
to experiment with that will be these images in here.
So, let's take a look at when they start to change.
And that's here at this 900 pixel query.
All right, so let's get back to our HTML.
And get our hands dirty with this code.
So, where do we have this?
And, yeah, so here we go.
So, how do we actually approach this problem?
Unlike in art direction where we basically forced
the browser to use a certain image
according to a media query,
in this approach that we're using right now,
we allow the browser to choose the best image
for the current view port and pixel density situation.
So, let's write out how we are going to do that.
So again we're using an image.
And again we're using the source set here.
Now, for each of these image, so net one, two, and three,
let's take a look here at the folder.
So we have net one and net one large.
So let's open these two.
And so, you see that the big one has 1,000 pixels of width
and a smaller one has only 300.
So, our source set is image,
net one, and then image,
net one, large.
All right, so right now this is a bit similar
to density switching, which we did observe.
But in density switching, we didn't use the
density descriptors, right?
Like one x or two x.
But right now we're gonna use something else,
which is called the width descriptor.
And so, what we do here is to basically inform
the browser of the width of these images.
So, remember this one has 300 pixels.
And so, we write 300w, okay,
which probably stands for width.
And then this one here has 1,000.
And so, by using these width descriptors,
we basically inform the browser of the width
of each of these images without the browser
having to download them to get access
to that information.
So that is the first step.
Okay, but that alone is not enough for the browser
to figure out which image to download,
because what the browser knows is its view port width
and its display density.
But that alone is again not enough to decide
which of these two images to choose.
So we have to give it something else.
And we do that with the sizes attribute.
So, sizes, so what is the size attribute here all about?
Well, basically we use sizes to inform the browser
about the approximate width of the image
at different view port width.
And so, with that information, together
with the width descriptor here, the browser can then
figure out which is the perfect image
to use for the current view port width
and the current display resolution.
So, let me show you how to do that.
So, basically this is a list of a couple of break points
that we define and that which we know
approximately what the width of the image will be.
So, let's use our break points
that we've used before, so 900 pixels.
Then here we say the width that the image will be.
So, 900 pixels is this one here, no, actually this one.
And so, let's take a look.
Okay, so these are the images.
That's the one we just included,
but it's not working already, so let's ignore that for now.
And so, this here is our image, so let's inspect it.
And we see that width is like 170.
And so, we can actually divide this, so 171 by 900.
And so, this is basically 20%.
So we can say basically that this image here
has a width of 20% of the view port width.
So let's inform the browser of that.
That's it, actually, as simple as that.
Now we can do another breakpoint,
like 600 here.
And so, let's see what we have here.
Well, it's still 171.
And so, now it's 28, 29, 30,
we can actually say 30.
Okay, so, let's say max width at 600 pixels,
we have 30 view port width.
Okay, and then at the end, like a default,
we can put in the default size.
And what is the default size?
Well, our default font size is,
I think it's defined it as,
ah, and here we see it, approximately 300 pixels.
Right, see that?
It says 297, but we can say 300.
So that's the default if none of these
conditions here apply.
All right, and so now we just need the alt attribute
that we had before, so photo one.
And also this class.
And I'm putting it in a different line here
so that it is easier to read.
And actually we should do another thing
which is to actually include the source
as well in the image.
And that is in case the user is using an older browser
which doesn't support source set, neither sizes
and these new attributes.
So if a browser doesn't understand any of these here,
then it can still use the source attribute.
And we should do that down here in the footer as well.
So, where is that?
Ah, yeah, so right here.
So let's set the source to this image here.
Just in case source set is not supported by the browser
that the user is using.
Okay, but this will be ignored in case
that the browser understands source set.
So, no problem with that.
So, let's go back.
And here we go.
That will now comment out this entire code here.
And then copy this entire construct here for
the other images.
So here, here, here,
here and here.
It's all number two.
All right, and then copy it again.
Two, three,
four, five.
And all at three.
And that is actually it.
So this entire thing here will take care
of actually both resolution switching
and density switching.
Because we gave the browser enough information
to figure out exactly what to do
depending on both the view port width
and the pixel density, so the screen resolution.
So let's take a look at that now.
Reload this entire thing.
And, well, maybe something weird is going on.
Let's go back to that.
All right, so let's inspect this here.
And here we go.
And again, I'm going to use, ah, here it is, properties.
Just to take a look at the current source.
And you see that it's already working.
So it's using this small net three image here
and here probably the same.
So where is it?
Ah, down here.
So it's using this small net one image here
because we have this smaller pixel density here.
And so, we specified this image as being 300 pixels.
And so, it's actually using the image
which has a width of 300 pixels.
Not the larger one, which actually has
a width of 1,000 pixels.
So if you change that to two,
then it should use that one.
So, let's check that.
And, yeah, so right now it's using
the net three large image.
And the same thing for the other two, I'm sure.
And, yeah, so now it's using the net one large.
And that is because we have this higher pixel density.
And therefore the browser chooses
to use the larger image.
Which actually has 1,000 pixels and width.
But this is the image that it has to use
if it wants to display two pixels of the image
and one pixel in the design.
So that's the philosophy behind the two x screen.
So that's working already.
And let's now move down to the smaller screen here.
And I'm gonna reload.
And so, let's take a look at what we have now,
which image it is using now.
And we're still using the net one large.
Let's push that even further down,
so really, really small here now.
Let's make it even smaller.
Reload.
And so, let's see now.
Because right now the image is really small, right?
As you see, it's only 116 pixels wide.
And so, now the net two image here
would already be enough, okay,
so let's take a look at that.
And, actually, it says it's using the net two large.
But I don't really believe that it is,
because as I mentioned before, sometimes this doesn't
really work really well, this device pixel ratio
option here, sometimes it doesn't really work.
So if you would test this in the real world,
then I'm sure it would actually load this smaller image.
Because it's such a small image in here
that even with a higher pixel density here,
the small image is more than enough to display
all of that pixels that we want.
Okay, so let's maybe put that to three.
Sorry, put that to three, reload and increase.
Put to two, then increase again,
just to see if it changes that value.
Okay, then reload again.
So let's take a look at that now.
And it still says large.
Okay, it's not a problem because as I said,
I'm sure that it's working the way it should.
Maybe if you are seeing this on a one x screen, actually,
so a lower density screen, then it will show you
that it's using the net one.
And so, that depends of course on your screen.
I'm currently recording this video
on a high density screen.
And so, maybe that's the reason why it stays here
at the large image, even if the small one
would be more than enough.
Okay, so I hope all of that made sense to you.
And so, my challenge for you now is to actually go ahead
and change the other images.
So, for example, these images here.
So these ones, and then also the ones we have here.
So, I challenge you to create some smaller versions
of these images and then play around with this technique
that I just showed you in order to make all of these images
responsive, because your users in the future,
they will appreciate the extra effort,
the extra mile that you go in order to make the website
better for them and more responsive
and more performant
with the users with the smaller screen, for example,
with the low data connection on their smart phone.
And so, we have to think about all of these possibilities
and not leaving responsive images
just as an afterthought.
So I showed it to you how it works.
And so, again, I look forward for you to complete this
with all the other images that we have on the page.
Now, just to make sure that you really understood,
let's just take 30 seconds and recap
what we done here.
So we have two versions of the same image.
One has 300 pixels and one has 1,000 pixels,
which is the large one.
And so, in the source set attribute here,
we specify the width descriptor and specify exactly
the width in pixels that each image has.
So this one 300, this one 1,000.
Then next, we use the size attribute to specify
the approximate view in view port width units
for different breakpoints.
And you could add even more if you wanted.
That wouldn't be a problem at all.
So, actually, the more, the better.
The more precise the browser,
we'll know which image to choose.
And then finally if none of these breakpoints here apply,
we just use our default here basically.
And that is it.
So, the browser as its loading the HTML document,
it knows its current view port width,
and it knows its current pixel density of the screen.
And having in mind all the information here
that we provided, it then can choose
which image to download.
And that's the entire philosophy behind this
resolution switching method.
Now, just to compare it again with the art direction,
let's come back here again to the footer.
So here, it is a bit different.
So what we do here is to basically force
the browser to use this image here
that we give it here in case that this media query applies.
And so, the browser doesn't really have a choice,
which is actually exactly what we want for art direction.
So that's actually it for responsive images in HTML.
I hope that made sense to you, and if you have any questions
about this, make sure to post them in the Q and A section
on Udemy, and you're gonna get help there.
And then go ahead and change all of the images
of this page to responsive images.